From pchapin@ecet.vtc.edu Wed Oct  4 15:56:58 2006
Date: Wed, 4 Oct 2006 15:56:03 -0400
From: Peter C. Chapin <pchapin@ecet.vtc.edu>
To: "Menchini, Patricia " <PMenchini@vtc.vsc.edu>
Cc: draad@vtc.edu
Subject: Re: XML contract

On Tue, 3 Oct 2006, Menchini, Patricia  wrote:

> We are preparing the contract for the xml schema and info path project.
> You mention "conversion to XML outlines" as a piece of the process, but
> did not mention any hours associated with that.  We would like to
> include this contract, but extend the time.  Do you have any thoughts on
> this?

As we talked about this morning, it makes sense for the bulk of the conversion work to be done
in a distributed manner by individuals from the various departments. This is because a) only
departmental faculty will really know how to fill in the blanks for their courses and b) there
are a large number of outlines involved and it would be very time consuming for a single
individual to try and do them all.

However, it makes sense to formalize this process somewhat to be sure that it gets done in a
timely manner (such as before the next accreditation cycle). To that end I'm willing to

+ Do a couple (exact number depending on the circumstances) of presentations, for example to
  assembly or other interested groups, about the mechanics of preparing the outlines.

+ Write a document describing how to prepare and submit outlines.

+ Work with indivdual departments, in whatever manner the department feels is reasonable (meet
  with the department, or talk one-on-one with a particular faculty member or support person) to
  assist in this process.

+ Address glitches in the process and fix bugs as they are discovered in the input form and
  style sheet.

Most of this work would almost certainly happen in the Spring 2007 semester. I forsee taking the
bulk of the remainder of this semester to get the system worked out and then we can deploy it
next semester to prepare outlines for Fall 2007 and beyond.

It's hard to predict how much of this sort of work will be necessary but I'm guessing that it
will be in the 10 to 20 hour range. I feel that it would be reasonable to include 15 hours for
this.

Peter
