From pchapin@vtc.vsc.edu Fri Aug 18 06:52:10 2006
Date: Tue, 15 Aug 2006 07:17:54 -0400
From: Peter C. Chapin <pchapin@vtc.vsc.edu>
To: Patricia Menchini <pmenchini@vtc.vsc.edu>
Cc: ssabol@vtc.vsc.edu
Subject: XML course outline proposal.

Hello! When we last met you asked me to think over what would be involved in implementing
something useful in the XML course outline project. I understood you to mean that you were
interested in specifics about deliverables and the corresponding time and money required. I have
reflected on this issue and have come up with the following proposal.

Minimally we would want to be able to enter the outlines into appropriate XML documents and then
display those outlines in a web browser. To accomplish this, the following steps would be
necessary:

+ Prepare an XML schema definition based on whatever the faculty assembly approves for course
  outline content. This document formally defines what a course outline contains and specifies
  constraints on the content.

+ Prepare an InfoPath form that allows a non-specialist to enter or edit course outline data.
  InfoPath is part of Microsoft Office and so should be widely available around campus. Note
  that InfoPath will use the schema document above to ensure that only valid outlines are
  created.

+ Prepare a style sheet that allows the XML outlines to be converted to HTML for presentation on
  the web.

+ Provide support for faculty (and staff) using InfoPath.

I estimate the following times:

+ Prepare an XML schema    :  5 hours
+ Prepare an InfoPath form : 15 hours
+ Prepare a style sheet    : 10 hours
+ Provide support          :  5 hours

This comes to a total of 35 hours. At $25/hour the cost would be $875.

This estimate does not include any time for converting existing outlines. As we talked about
this conversion will probably require human judgment and thus can't be done automatically.
Furthermore it would be ideal if the instructor for a course converted that course's outline. I
propose that we make a repository for outlines on the Windows server and allow certain people
(all faculty? department chairs?) write access to that repository. As outlines are updated
during the normal course of events, they can be converted and added to this repository.

I'd be willing to work on the project above. Because I already have a very full schedule it
would take a number of weeks to complete. However, I could have it done by the end of the fall
2006 semester.

One of the advantages of having course outlines in an XML format is that it enables us to use
software to process the outlines. I have identified two tools that would be of interest.

1. A tool that extracts from the outlines the information that must also be in the catalog. This
   tool should have the option of extracting only the information that has changed since the
   last time it was run. I'm visualizing that the tool will format this information into an
   email message for Lisa Helme. I *don't* propose that the tool automatically try to
   incorporate outline information directly into the catalog. That would be significantly more
   difficult and anyway Lisa might want to assert editorial control over the content.

2. A tool that automatically connects course objectives in the outlines to program objectives
   for the various programs. I know that ABET is interested in having these connections
   documented for the engineering technology programs. I understand that other programs have
   similar requirements. It is a little unclear to me how to make this work well, but the
   potential is there to simplify, at least a little, some of the documentation requirements we
   face regarding accreditation visits. Note that this tool would require the human outline
   author to specify, in some way, how each course object relates to the program objectives. The
   tool would only organize this information and check it for consistency (for example, verify
   that every program objective has at least one course objective supporting it).

I estimate that these tools would require me about 20 hours each. I'd be willing to work on one
or both of them as well, but the time to completion would spill into the spring semester. There
may be alternative ways of getting these tools built. For example the BS.CPE students take a
software engineering class during which they are assigned a software development project. I
don't teach that class but I could talk to the instructor to see if either of the tools above
would be a suitable project. If so, we may be able to get our students to build one or both of
the tools while earning course credit at the same time. However, the tools might not be suitable
for the goals of the course, so I can't promise that this will work. Another possibility is the
Computer Club. Although the club can only work on projects as time allows, if a club member took
an interest in this problem he or she might prove to be an effective resource. I am the club
adviser and I could bring this matter before the club if desired.

There are additional directions this initiative could take down the road. Some of them we have
talked about already. Some of them are quite ambitious.

+ We could set up a revision control system to track modifications to the course outlines... or
  for that matter any other document set we desire to track. The IT department might be able to
  help with some of the required server management as part of their normal duties.

+ We could construct additional tools for processing course outlines. I don't know right now
  what other kinds of processing would be desirable, but other people may have ideas about that.

+ We could study other document types used by VTC and see if there would be value converting
  other kinds of documents to an XML format.

+ We could study the whole issue of information work flow and deploy some sort of work flow
  management tool if that would be useful. For example, when items are purchased there is first
  a requisition that must be signed by various people and then a PO is generated. There are
  special tools that make it easy to track and manage this kind of information as it moves
  around the organization. In fact InfoPath is intended to play a role in exactly this sort of
  work flow management (hence the name "InfoPath"). One could imagine a system where a person
  enters a purchase requisition into an XML document using InfoPath and then routes that
  document to their department chair for approval. The department chair digitally signs the
  document (the XML standard provides a way to digitally sign documents or parts of documents)
  and then forwards the document to the dean, etc. If the document needs to be printed it is
  first styled using XML technology. Finally the document could be entered into an XML database
  where it could later be retrieved, if necessary, with an appropriate searches. This is the
  world we are moving towards by introducing XML into our business process. Realizing this
  potential fully could be seen as a long term goal of the course outline experiment.

Feel free to share this note with anyone who might be interested. I have taken the liberty to CC
the faculy assembly moderator for his information.

Peter
