Hi Peter –

The new fields fold in information required by the VSC. By creating a single form Erica Dana and
I hope to avoid having everyone fill out two forms which contain much of the same information.
The added information also helps Erica schedule classes.

Please let me know if you have other questions or suggestions.

1. Is the SHORT TITLE required and what is its purpose?

- The VSC new course form requires this short title. I believe it is used on pre-reg and
  transcript forms.

2. What is the purpose of the COURSE LEVEL element?

- It’s become clear to us that our current 1000,2000, etc. numbering system refers only to the
  year in which a student takes a course: 1000 is first year, 2000 second year and so on. As we
  move to create more BS and possibly graduate courses we believe we need to help faculty think
  about the level at which they are teaching courses. It’s unlikely that all courses taken by
  seniors are taught at a senior level. We hope that this field helps us think about the level
  of teaching and learning that’s happening in each course.

3. Is the DATE CREATED the date the course was created or the outline?

- We’d hoped it would be the date of course creation. However, the college does not have
  outlines for many of our courses. Date of outline creation is also useful as we can then see
  how long it’s been since the course was updated, or determine if enough ‘evolution’ has
  occurred in a technical field to require a thorough review of a course.

4. Of the pair DATE CREATED and CHECKED/CHANGED are both required?
   both optional? something else?

- Both are required. Ideally, if we create a course this spring the date of creation will be
  2014. Annual review of course outlines should be tracked by the checked/changed line. When the
  outline is reviewed next year the date will be changed to 2015.

5. For DELIVERY METHOD is the element value intended to be free
   formatted text or is there is specific list of allowed methods?

- At this point we’re trying to survey faculty and determine just how we are delivering courses.
  Obvious choices: face-to-face, online only, hybrid, face-to-face and lecture capture, etc.

6. In COURSE OUTCOMES the description says, "Consider choosing keywords related to program
   outcomes and Bloom's taxonomy for level of learning." Is it intended to be two lists: one for
   program outcomes and one for Bloom's taxonomy, or is it intended to be a single list of
   keywords? I assume these keywords are free formatted text (not words taken from a specific
   list).

- Programs will determine the outcome of courses and (hopefully) enter those outcomes as
  sentences. We are asking that folks use action verbs from Bloom’s taxonomy to indicate the
  level of teaching and learning for that outcome. For example, “Students will understand…. “
  vs. “Students will create or synthesize…”

7. In COURSE CONTENT it says, "may be set up as topics covered per week or hours spent on each
   topic." Does that mean it should be possible to group topics into sections with one section
   for each week? I'm not clear what the expectation is for people who set up the content as
   "topics covered per week."

- Intended to be flexible. I often see outlines with 8 – 10 – 14 topics listed. If 14 topics are
  listed we assume that each topic receives a week’s worth of hours of coverage. Some folks
  structure outlines with 25 topics and give a number of hours that will be spent on each topic.
  In the latter case, the total number of hours should equal the number of contact hours in the
  course.

8. For the SEMESTER element what if a course is offered in the Fall, Spring, *and* Summer? The
   word "Both" does not seem to apply. Perhaps instead of using "Both" the element should be al
   ist of semester names.

- I’ve seen Fall, Spring, Summer, or Fall and Spring, or Fall, Summer and Spring.

Do the following elements appear in the catalog?
  - SHORT TITLE                 no
  - COURSE LEVEL                no
  - RESTRICTIONS ON ENROLLMENT  no
  - SPECIAL FEES                yes
  - SEMESTER                    yes
  - GRADED OR P/NP              yes
  - DELIVERY METHOD             sometimes
  - ROOM REQUIREMENTS           only if at a non-campus site at this point.

Joan Richmond-Hall, Ph.D. | Director, Sustainable Design & Technology
                          | Assoc. Professor, Science VERMONT TECH
